README.md, before:

# File uploader
This example creates an AWS serverless "file uploader" app in a new AWS account with a publicly accessible S3 bucket.

It is a two-step upload

* Calls an Amazon API Gateway endpoint, which invokes the getSignedURL Lambda function. This gets a signed URL from the S3 bucket.
* Directly upload the file from the application to the S3 bucket.

![Architecture](docs/arch.png)

Utilizes API Gateway, Lambda, S3, IAM, Cloudwatch.

Created mainly with Terraform(TF) code, some Bash scripts and NodeJS for the Lambda code.

## Requirements
- AWS CLI
- Terraform

## Installation Instructions
- Create an AWS account if you do not have one already and login.
- Clone the repo onto your local development machine using git clone.
- In "setup_env.tf" file, line 10, put an email for the new AWS account that will be created.

### Deploying the new account and the application
Everything is done by executing the "setup_env.sh" file


### Environment deployment
setup_env.sh - Bash script that connects to the root account (credentials have to be provided by user) and runs TF code to create:
* An Organization
* Service control policy (SCP) with limited AWS permissions
* Account with the SCP attached to it and an Admin Role that trusts the Root account
* By assuming the Admin Role, it creates a user and his access key in the new account

The TF code is at "sf-it-root" folder
  * setup_env.tf: Creates the resources
  * provider.tf: TF/AWS provider configuration
  * outputs.tf: Exposes the new user credentials

#### Notes
For this scenario, we create a user in the new account, even if an assumable Role would made things easier, to deploy the App's resources.
To do so, we need to use the user ID/Secret in our script for authentication. The secret is currently being stored in the TF state in an non-encrypted format.
Reason is to be fetched more easily by the script. For hardening, encryption/decryption with a PGP
key can be implemented [(more)](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_access_key#example-usage).
Alternatively, the access key can be created with AWS CLI. In this case we can grab the ID/secret from the output.
```
aws iam create-access-key --user-name "Assignment_User"
```

### Serverless app deployment
(The whole implementation is based on an official AWS Sample ([click me](https://github.com/aws-samples/amazon-s3-presigned-urls-aws-sam)),
which creates all the resources with a AWS SAM template. In our case, each resource is defined separately.)

setup_env.sh - After the environment deployment, it calls another TF code under "sf-it-app" to create:
* S3 bucket
* API Gateway
* Lambda function
* IAM Policy for the Lambda IAM Role

Code under "sf-it-app"
* exercise.tf: Resources are defined here
* provider.tf: TF/AWS provider configuration
* outputs.tf: Exposes the API Gateway's endpoint and the S3 bucket's name
* "src" folder: Lambda function's code
* "frontend" folder: HTML file for "easier" tests of the application (needs to be uploaded to the S3 bucket)

#### Notes
There was only a basic tag used (Application), but in a proper deployment there would be more (eg. owner/repository/environment/managedby)

There are two local TF states being created. One in each folder (Root/App).
These are being used as well for the [environment's teardown](#environment-teardown)

## Environment teardown
teardown_env.sh - Bash script that destroys the app and then the new user/new account/organization policy
- Asks for Root account's user credentials.
- Fetches and authenticates with the new account's user credentials
- Destroys the app resources with "terraform destroy" targeting the TF state of the Application
- Switches back to Root account's user credentials
- Destroys the User/Account/Org policy with "terraform destroy" targeting the TF state of the Root account

## Check if S3 bucket is public
test.sh
- Asks for Root account's user credentials.
- Fetches and authenticates with the new account's user credentials
- Fetches the S3 bucket name from the App's TF state output
- Tests with [AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/s3api/get-bucket-policy-status.html) if the S3 Bucket is public
- and 'echo'es a message with the findings.


## Bonus
#### Create a Cloudformation template for SCP provisioning

Unfortunately, that seems [not supported yet](https://github.com/aws-cloudformation/cloudformation-coverage-roadmap/issues/806)

Commit message:

README: Add extra info for user permissions

README.md, after:

# File uploader
This example creates an AWS serverless "file uploader" app in a new AWS account with a publicly accessible S3 bucket.

It is a two-step upload

* Calls an Amazon API Gateway endpoint, which invokes the getSignedURL Lambda function. This gets a signed URL from the S3 bucket.
* Directly upload the file from the application to the S3 bucket.

![Architecture](docs/arch.png)

Utilizes API Gateway, Lambda, S3, IAM, Cloudwatch.

Created mainly with Terraform(TF) code, some Bash scripts and NodeJS for the Lambda code.

## Requirements
- AWS CLI
- Terraform

## Installation Instructions
- Create an AWS account if you do not have one already and login.
- Clone the repo onto your local development machine using git clone.
- In "setup_env.tf" file, line 10, put an email for the new AWS account that will be created.

### Deploying the new account and the application
Everything is done by executing the "setup_env.sh" file


### Environment deployment
setup_env.sh - Bash script that connects to the root account (credentials have to be provided by user) and runs TF code to create:
* An Organization
* Service control policy (SCP) with limited AWS permissions
* Account with the SCP attached to it and an Admin Role that trusts the Root account
* By assuming the Admin Role, it creates a user and his access key in the new account

The TF code is at "sf-it-root" folder
  * setup_env.tf: Creates the resources
  * provider.tf: TF/AWS provider configuration
  * outputs.tf: Exposes the new user credentials

#### Notes
For this scenario, we create a user in the new account, even if an assumable Role would made things easier, to deploy the App's resources.
To do so, we need to use the user ID/Secret in our script for authentication. The secret is currently being stored in the TF state in an non-encrypted format.
Reason is to be fetched more easily by the script. For hardening, encryption/decryption with a PGP
key can be implemented [(more)](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_access_key#example-usage).
Alternatively, the access key can be created with AWS CLI. In this case we can grab the ID/secret from the output.
```
aws iam create-access-key --user-name "Assignment_User"
```

The IAM user has permissions to create more resources than the ones defined in the "sf-it-app" code, which would create an issue
with the automated AWS account cleanup and even worse, would incur extra charges. Although, as "we" deploy the app and the App user
just uses it, there is no "unexpected" risk. If for any reason we want reduce the risk even more and as we know the resources to be
deployed, we can define in either SCP or IAM policy, only the required permissions and resources.
eg. Create S3 bucket with this name or Create API Gateway v2 with this name, route arn, etc

### Serverless app deployment
(The whole implementation is based on an official AWS Sample ([click me](https://github.com/aws-samples/amazon-s3-presigned-urls-aws-sam)),
which creates all the resources with a AWS SAM template. In our case, each resource is defined separately.)

setup_env.sh - After the environment deployment, it calls another TF code under "sf-it-app" to create:
* S3 bucket
* API Gateway
* Lambda function
* IAM Policy for the Lambda IAM Role

Code under "sf-it-app"
* exercise.tf: Resources are defined here
* provider.tf: TF/AWS provider configuration
* outputs.tf: Exposes the API Gateway's endpoint and the S3 bucket's name
* "src" folder: Lambda function's code
* "frontend" folder: HTML file for "easier" tests of the application (needs to be uploaded to the S3 bucket)

#### Notes
There was only a basic tag used (Application), but in a proper deployment there would be more (eg. owner/repository/environment/managedby)

There are two local TF states being created. One in each folder (Root/App).
These are being used as well for the [environment's teardown](#environment-teardown)

## Environment teardown
teardown_env.sh - Bash script that destroys the app and then the new user/new account/organization policy
- Asks for Root account's user credentials.
- Fetches and authenticates with the new account's user credentials
- Destroys the app resources with "terraform destroy" targeting the TF state of the Application
- Switches back to Root account's user credentials
- Destroys the User/Account/Org policy with "terraform destroy" targeting the TF state of the Root account

## Check if S3 bucket is public
test.sh
- Asks for Root account's user credentials.
- Fetches and authenticates with the new account's user credentials
- Fetches the S3 bucket name from the App's TF state output
- Tests with [AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/s3api/get-bucket-policy-status.html) if the S3 Bucket is public
- and 'echo'es a message with the findings.


## Bonus
#### Create a Cloudformation template for SCP provisioning

Unfortunately, that seems [not supported yet](https://github.com/aws-cloudformation/cloudformation-coverage-roadmap/issues/806)
